# How I Discovered Technical Writing and Fell in Love with It

“I am a Technical Writer.”

I have said this sentence multiple times in the last 4 years. The looks I got were various — from thoughtful, to questioning, and all the shades in between. Important information that needs to be known: my background is a Ph.D. in computational and theoretical biophysical chemistry. Just to say — the look thingy really improved since then.

So, how I went from this very long exotic titled background to being a technical writer in a software company?

I will not hide that I wasn’t looking for this job. I had gone through 1 year of evening classes about Python and Data Science, Machine Learning, Deep Learning and so on. But it was not really enough to land me an IT job — too specialized in chemistry to get an internship in data stuff, not enough knowledge to get a full-time job in data stuff.

Until I got my interviews with KNIME. They were very nice and looked deeper into what I could offer them, based on what they needed, and my skills. They were able to see that Ph.D. is a job — it gives you resilience, ability, and the right set of skills to make the jump out of the Academia, into the magic world outside.

The rest is history: they told me “what about Technical Writer” — I answered “let me google that”. And then, after reading, among other things, through the most fundamental website that you need to know to become a Technical Writer — https://www.writethedocs.org/ — I accepted the position.

I have been the Technical Writer there since then. I have taken care of the documentation website, release notes, FAQs, UX Writing, talking with support and solution engineers, developers, UX designers, product owners, product managers, and I have to admit: I found my thing.

It took me a very long time to write this first Medium story. I don’t know if this is interesting for anyone — but my other big passion is mentoring — maybe someone out there will read this and get inspired.

The take home message, I guess, is: there is a whole spectrum of jobs that you can do and sometimes the right one is presented to you (I was very lucky!), some other times you need to look for it. The important thing is being prepared and enjoy the journey.

P.s. I would like to write the next story about “why I left Academia” — in the meantime you can listen to this: https://youtu.be/LKiBlGDfRU8?si=_0f1b-ye8mUZlXZ6